hoof care today with geno vanneck is
brought to you by edss the leader in
hoof care technology and information our
next six segments are devoted to a case
study with Darcy pearsall and feisty
right yeah give us a little history on
feisty I've used feisty and ranch
versatility cutting and barrel racing
she's 12 years old now she started
coming up lame about two years ago
alright Richy Mars going to be with us
here to help with the technical work our
initial evaluation is at a walk in
straight line we determine if they're
lame at a walk and also whether they're
landing toe first heel first or flat at
the same time we look at the rear legs
and see how they track up into the front
foot do they land in the track beyond
the front foot or behind it we also
evaluate the horse at a trot in a
straight line we determine if she lame
we try to put a number to that we also
look at how she lands as she fought toe
first how she tracks up as well the next
part of the evaluation is in a circle
both ways going to the left you put a
number to the lameness go the other
direction put a number to that lameness
in that direction the next part of the
evaluation is leg conformation is she
towed out straight or issue pigeon toed
or towed in part of our evaluation is to
determine what type of foot the horse
has whether it's an under run flat foot
whether it's what most people call
normal or if it has that upright
appearance more like a clubfoot to
continue learning about this topic go to
hoof care today calm and to learn more
about edss the leader and hoof care
technology and information visit edss
hoof care calm
you